## The Idea of Duck Typing

*If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, treat it as a duck.*

> An object’s suitability is determined by the methods and behaviours it provides, not by its type or inheritance.

### `classmethod` Versus `staticmethod`

`@classmethod`: Changes the way the method is called so it receives the class itself as the first argument instead of the instance.

`@staticmethod`: Changes the method so it receives no special first argument. It essentials make the method a plain function that just happens to live in the method body.

### No such thing as private attrs

Prefixing a variable with `__` doesn't mean that other people can't access but rather that the name gets mangled with `_CLASSNAME__VARNAME` to prevent subclasses to prevent clobbering. *It's about safety NOT security*
## Saving Memory with `__slots__`

**Savings are nontrivial when dealing with a large quantity of objects**

Normally, Python stores the attributes of each instance in a dict named `__dict__`.

Define a class attribute named `__slots__` holding a sequence of attribute names, Python uses an alternative storage model for the instance attributes: the attributes named in `__slots__` are stored in a hidden array or references that use less memory than a dict.

- You must remember to redeclare __slots__ in each subclass to prevent their instances from having __dict__.
- Instances will only be able to have the attributes listed in __slots__, unless you include '__dict__' in __slots__ (but doing so may negate the memory savings). 
- Classes using __slots__ cannot use the `@cached_property` decorator, unless they explicitly name '__dict__' in __slots__. 
- Instances cannot be targets of weak references, unless you add '__weakref__' in __slots__.

